https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-23917 MCOA (#8364)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/obs_enable_mcoa.adoc

[#enable-mcoa]
= Enabling the multicluster observability add-on

Enable the multicluster observability add-on on your hub cluster to configure your metrics for your platform and user workloads. You are required to enable platform workloads and it is optional to enable user workloads.

> When you enable `platform` and `userWorkloads` specifications, the `MultiClusterObservability` operator stops deploying the metrics collectors to your managed clusters and deploys the `multicluster-observability-addon-manager` in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace. The `MultiClusterObservability` operator deploys the new metrics collectors based on the `PrometheusAgent` resource from your managed clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable `platform` and `userWorkloads` specifications, the `MultiClusterObservability` operator stops deploying the metrics collectors to your managed clusters and deploys the `multicluster-observability-addon-manager` in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace. The `multicluster-observability-addon-manager` deploys the new metrics collectors based on the `PrometheusAgent` resource defined on your hub cluster.
```

Complete the following steps to enable the multicluster observability add-on on your hub cluster:

. To enable platform monitoring and user workload monitoring, add the `platform` and `userWorkloads` specification to your `MultiClusterObservability` resource. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc patch mco observability -n open-cluster-management-observability --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"capabilities":{"platform":{"metrics":{"default":{"enabled": true}}},"userWorkloads":{"metrics":{"default":{"enabled": true}}}}}}'
----
+
Your `MultiClusterObservability` resource might resemble the following file example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta2
kind: MultiClusterObservability
metadata:
  name: observability
spec:
  capabilities:
    platform:
      metrics:
        default:
          enabled: true
    userWorkloads:
      metrics:
        default:
          enabled: true
----

. To verify that the default configuration resources for the multicluster observability add-on are created, open your `multicluster-observability-addon` `ClusterManagementAddon` resource. Run the following command:

+

> [source,bash]

Reviewer: I would replace this command with:
oc get prometheusagents -n open-cluster-management-observability

And then we can add: 

You can also verify that the default configurations are added to your placements with:
oc get cma multicluster-observability-addon -o yaml | yq '.spec.installStrategy.placements'

[#enable-mcoa]
= Enabling the multicluster observability add-on

Enable the multicluster observability add-on on your hub cluster to configure your metrics for your platform and user workloads. You are required to enable platform workloads and it is optional to enable user workloads.

> When you enable `platform` and `userWorkloads` specifications, the `MultiClusterObservability` operator removes the `endpoint-observability-operator` and `metrics-collector-deployment` resources, and deploys the `multicluster-observability-addon-manager` in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace.

Reviewer: Proposal:
When you enable `platform` and `userWorkloads` specifications, the `MultiClusterObservability` operator stops deploying the metrics collectors in the managed clusters and deploys the `multicluster-observability-addon-manager` in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace. This operator will deploy the new metrics collectors based on the PrometheusAgent to the managed clusters.

*Required access:* Cluster administrator

.Prerequisites

- You must enable the Observability service on your hub cluster. For more details, see xref:../observability/observability_enable.adoc[Enabling the Observability service].
- You must install the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Observability Operator. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_cluster_observability_operator/1-latest/html-single/about_red_hat_openshift_cluster_observability_operator/index[Cluster Observability Operator overview].

Complete the following steps to enable the multicluster observability add-on on your hub cluster:

. To enable platform monitoring and user workload monitoring, add the `platform` and `userWorkloads` specification to your `MultiClusterObservability` resource. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> oc patch MultiClusterObservability observability -n open-cluster-management-observability --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"platform":{"enabled": true},"userWorkloads":{"enabled": true}}}'

Reviewer: oc patch mco observability -n open-cluster-management-observability --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"capabilities":{"platform":{"metrics":{"default":{"enabled": true}}},"userWorkloads":{"metrics":{"default":{"enabled": true}}}}}}'

----
+
Your `MultiClusterObservability` resource might resemble the following file example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta2
kind: MultiClusterObservability
metadata:
  name: observability
spec:
  capabilities:
    platform:
      metrics:
        default:
          enabled: true
    userWorkloads:
      metrics:
        default:
          enabled: true
----

. To verify that the default configuration resources for the multicluster observability add-on are created, open your `multicluster-observability-addon` `ClusterManagementAddon` resource. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> oc get clustermanagementaddon -n multicluster-observability-addon

Reviewer: What about:
oc get cma multicluster-observability-addon -o yaml | yq '.spec.installStrategy.placements'

When you enable `platform` and `userWorkloads` specifications, the `MultiClusterObservability` operator stops deploying the metrics collectors to your managed clusters and deploys the `multicluster-observability-addon-manager` in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace. The `multicluster-observability-addon-manager` deploys the new metrics collectors based on the `PrometheusAgent` resource defined on your hub cluster.

*Required access:* Cluster administrator

.Prerequisites

- You must enable the Observability service on your hub cluster. For more details, see xref:../observability/observability_enable.adoc[Enabling the Observability service].
- You must install the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Observability Operator. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_cluster_observability_operator/1-latest/html-single/about_red_hat_openshift_cluster_observability_operator/index[Cluster Observability Operator overview].

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.Procedure

```
